Certification content: first draft (#49)
project-chip/matter-handbook: content/Certification/certifying_a_product/development.md

+++
title = "Development"
chapter = false
weight = 6
+++

![](../imgs/development.png)

The process of developing a Matter product is highly dependent on the device
being developed, the platform being used and the policies of the company doing the development. There
is no single "best" way to integrate Matter into a product. This guide aims to
address the common considerations for Matter product development.

> - Information on the CSA open source SDK is available at the

Author: ```suggestion
- Information on the Connectivity Standards Alliance (CSA) open source SDK is available at the
```

### Device Attestation Certificates and Certification Authorities

Device attestation certificates are used to attest devices (or commissionable apps - in the case of Matter Casting) as being authentic
devices that are manufactured by the stated vendor and certified as a Matter
device. The full attestation procedure and certificate set is described in the
handbook
[Device Attestation](https://handbook.buildwithmatter.com/howitworks/attestation/)
section. The attestation certificate chain matches the vendor and product IDs
declared on the device and in the certification declaration.

The device attestation chain consists of the Device Attestation Certificate
(DAC), which is signed by the Product Attestation Intermediate (PAI), which is
signed by the Product Attestation Authority (PAA).

The DAC and PAI are provided by the product being commissioned (device, app, etc), and the PAA is distributed in the
DCL and does not appear on the product.

As a part of the attestation chain, each attesting product needs to be provisioned with:

-   Device attestation private key
    -   Private, stored in the secure subsystem where possible.

>     -   See Spec section 6.3.2 Firmware information.

Author: done.

    -   Covered by the

>         [Security Attestation declaration](https://groups.csa-iot.org/wg/members-all/document/27432)

Reviewer: I think for these couple of pages you're adding, for now we can just add a note or disclaimer at the top that says something like "Some links on this page are only accessible to CSA members."  Doesn't hurt to have.

I can add it to the style discussion items.

>         [Security Attestation declaration](https://groups.csa-iot.org/wg/members-all/document/27432)

Reviewer 2: Hello @Vyrastas , if this is completed, could you please mark as Resolved?

>         [Security Attestation declaration](https://groups.csa-iot.org/wg/members-all/document/27432)

Reviewer: It is resolved but I don't see an option to do that

A list of PKI providers can be found on the CSA site:

-   [Product Attestation Authorities](https://csa-iot.org/certification/paa/)

#### Development DACs
During te development phase, developers often opt to use test DACs using the test vendor IDs. The SDK has a number of example DACs that chain up to the SDK test PAAs and these are loaded by default by the example apps. The development controllers load the test PAAs by default, which simplifies development.

Development controllers can be switched to use production PAAs using the `--paa-trust-store-path` parameter.

Test DACs are not permitted during certification testing, and devices must arrive with two instances with individually provisioned DACs in order to show that the device can meet the requirements around individual provisioning. Devices at certification are not required to use production DACs.

Device manufacturers may wish to consider joining the CSA early in the process to understand the details of the security procedures within the Alliance.

### Certification Declaration (CD)

The Certification Declaration (CD) is provided by the CSA after n attesting product is

> certified. It is tied to the vendor and product ID (or IDs) of the certified

Author: sure - did a search and replace

Information about on-package badging and QR and manual codes are documented in the
[Brand Guidelines](https://csa-iot.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/Matter_Guideline_v15b_26102022_Public-Use.pdf).

### In-field updates to Matter

If a product that has already been released with non-Matter firmware wishes to update
to include Matter functionality, the Matter firmware and supporting materials can be
installed on the in-field devices using their already-available, non-Matter update
mechanism. Devices can continue to use their original update mechanism for future
Matter updates, or may opt to use the Matter-specified Over-the-Air (Matter OTA)
update mechanism.

In-field update considerations are
discussed in section 5.8 of the specification, but it is important to note that
in-field products are subject to the same per-unit requirements as Out-of-Box
Natter products, and thus it is important to consider how to distribute not only
the firmware, but also how to display the on-boarding material or how to do a
background update using the current connected application and how to provision
the per-unit materials discussed earlier in this section in a secure manner

> using the security materials available to the current firmware.

Author: broken.

## Certification programs

Product developers should be aware of the various certification programs and how
they may impact the product development process across the entire line.

In particular:

-   Products considering software component certification should understand
    which types of products and operating environments qualify for this program.
-   Products with various SKUs and variants should understand the portfolio
    certification program and what constitutes a viable portfolio parent.
-   Bridge devices should understand the bridge certification program and how
    certification of the supported device types works.

Product manufacturers should be aware that the CSA has a sunset policy in effect
for prior specification revisions. The sunset policy is available in Causeway

> via this [link](https://groups.csa-iot.org/wg/members-all/document/39617).

Author: Changed here. We have causeway elsewhere - resources slide, glossary. I'm not going to touch those, but if we end up with an editorial policy that says not to use that name, we'll have to go back and fix.

> via this [link](https://groups.csa-iot.org/wg/members-all/document/39617).

Reviewer: Thanks, let me add it to a list of style things to discuss.  Causeway is the platform so it doesn't seem right in this context.  It's like saying "the policy is available in Google Drive"

own PAA by operating a Certification Authority (CA) that conform to the CSA PKI
requirements. Both of these options have impact on the operational and/or BOM
costs of the product and should therefore be considered early in the process.
More information about this important product decision can be found in
[Getting a DAC for your product](https://groups.csa-iot.org/wg/matter-tsg/document/25881).

Operation of a CA is covered by the PKI certificate policies and attested by the
CPS.

-   [Matter PKI Certificate policy](https://groups.csa-iot.org/wg/matter-tsg/document/25032)
-   [CSA PKI CPS Template](https://groups.csa-iot.org/wg/matter-tsg/document/27111)
-   [Certificate Policy Self-Attestation Compliance Form](https://groups.csa-iot.org/wg/matter-tsg/document/27269)

A list of PKI providers can be found on the CSA site:

-   [Product Attestation Authorities](https://csa-iot.org/certification/paa/)

### Certification Declaration

The certification declaration is provided by the CSA after a device is
certified. It is tied to the vendor and product ID (or IDs) of the certified
device, and is signed by CSA. The public key corresponding to the signing key is

> well known and distributed by the CSA (TODO: It shows up everywhere, but where's

Reviewer 2: The Production CD Signing Certs are publicly available in the Distributed Compliance Ledger (DCL) (Main-Net):

CD Signing Certs Root CA: 

- https://on.dcl.csa-iot.org/dcl/pki/all-certificates?subjectKeyId=97:E4:69:D0:C5:04:14:C2:6F:C7:01:F7:7E:94:77:39:09:8D:F6:A5

CD Signing Cert SKIDs:

- https://on.dcl.csa-iot.org/dcl/pki/child-certificates/MFIxDDAKBgNVBAoMA0NTQTEsMCoGA1UEAwwjTWF0dGVyIENlcnRpZmljYXRpb24gYW5kIFRlc3RpbmcgQ0ExFDASBgorBgEEAYKifAIBDARDNUEw/97:E4:69:D0:C5:04:14:C2:6F:C7:01:F7:7E:94:77:39:09:8D:F6:A5

> well known and distributed by the CSA (TODO: It shows up everywhere, but where's

Author: added links - thanks

the official source for this?)

The certification declaration is NOT a standard x.509 certificate, but is
instead a CMS-encoded SignedData payload containing a TLV-encoded structure,
described in section 6.3.1 Certification Declaration of the spec. Certification
Declarations can be viewed using the
[Certificate Tool](https://project-chip.github.io/connectedhomeip-doc/src/tools/chip-cert/README.html),

The certification declaration for the product line is provided after
certification testing, and therefore cannot be hard coded in the firmware. New
certification declarations are issued for each certified firmware update.
Therefore, product development should include a strategy for initial
provisioning and updates of the certification declaration.

See
[Preparing a Device for Certification](#preparing-a-device-for-certification)
for discussion of CDs used for certification testing.

### Matter on-boarding materials (QR codes and manual codes)

> -   TODO: need a way to address custom flow and the different requirements for

Author: @amolivo - Do you know if there is material that covers this already? The tricky part is that i'm pretty sure this was just wrong in prior revisions of the specification. see 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

Reviewer 3: Page 34-35 of the Brand Guidelines discusses Primary and Secondary Setup Codes: https://csa-iot.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/Matter_Guideline_v15b_26102022_Public-Use.pdf We'll be working on some updates to the brand guidelines that should address other onboarding mechanisms later in the year.

Natter products, and thus it is important to consider how to distribute not only
the firmware, but also how to display the on-boarding material or how to do a
background update using the current connected application and how to provision
the per-unit materials discussed earlier in this section in a secure manner
using the security materials available to the current firmware.

## Certification programs

Product developers should be aware of the various certification programs and how
they may impact the product development process across the entire line.

In particular:

-   Products considering software component certification should understand
    which types of products and operating environments qualify for this program.
-   Products with various SKUs and variants should understand the portfolio
    certification program and what constitutes a viable portfolio parent.
-   Bridge devices should understand the bridge certification program and how
    certification of the supported device types works.

Product manufacturers should be aware that the CSA has a sunset policy in effect
for prior specification revisions. The sunset policy is available in full at

> (TODO: where's the sunset policy?).

Author: @amolivo - this is an SC thing right? Is this actually published anywhere?

Reviewer 4: The dates are recommended by the SC and approved by the BoD. As of right now, there is no one place where the sunset dates/policy is held. I've asked for them to be included in the policy doc, itself, as a single point of reference. I'll re-raise this request in TCOC, as I think it has fallen off the proverbial radar.

## Distribution of Over-the-air updates (OTA) and re-certification

As development continues on the Matter SDK, developers continue to find and fix
bugs, improve performance and maintainability. Ongoing specification development
works to improve interoperability and performance with new features. For these
reasons, its important to consider delivering software updates using either the
Matter OTA mechanism or a manufacturer-specific mechanism.

The mechanism for delivering OTAs is an important product consideration that
needs to be built into the shipping firmware. Update cadence affect the
certification planning for the product since all updates need to be
re-certified.

> [//]: #(TODO: do we want to talk about factory shipping image / 0-day split?

Author: Maybe a question for RS re: proposals around OTA during commissioning.

Reviewer 5: Note: today, Matter requires that the software on the FSI is the certified image, it made no provisions for pre-certifying the product, or for doing an OTA prior to completing the OOBE or prior to completing device attestation.

Matter doesn't actually have a good solution here)

## Other

> ANN - any other MP TTs that should fall into this bucket?

Author: @amolivo

Reviewer 3: What bucket? MPSG doesn't have any cert- or branding-specific TTs.

+++
title = "Development"
chapter = false
weight = 6
+++

![](../imgs/development.png)

The process of developing a Matter product is highly dependent on the device
being developed, the platform being used and the policies of the company. There
is no single "best" way to integrate Matter into a product. This guide aims to
address the common considerations for Matter product development.

SDK development guides are available to aid in the process of software
development and system and data model design. Information on Matter

> implementations is available at The SDK documentation is available in the

Author: yup - that's not saying anything. i just removed it. Obviously software development guides are there to help people develop their software.

> development and system and data model design. Information on Matter
> implementations is available at The SDK documentation is available in the
> [Matter Handbook SDK documentation](https://handbook.buildwithmatter.com/sdk/).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
development and system and data model design.  The SDK documentation is available in the
[Matter Handbook SDK documentation](https://handbook.buildwithmatter.com/sdk/).
```

> SDK development guides are available to aid in the process of software
> development and system and data model design. Information on Matter
> implementations is available at The SDK documentation is available in the
> [Matter Handbook SDK documentation](https://handbook.buildwithmatter.com/sdk/).
> 
> Information on the CSA open source SDK is available at the
> [Matter SDK documentation site](https://project-chip.github.io/connectedhomeip-doc/index.html).
> 
> Integration of the SDK on specific platforms is covered by the
> [Platform guides](https://project-chip.github.io/connectedhomeip-doc/platforms/index.html).

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
SDK development guides are available to aid in the process of software
development and system and data model design:

- Information on the CSA open source SDK is available at the
[Matter SDK documentation site](https://project-chip.github.io/connectedhomeip-doc/index.html).

- Integration of the SDK on specific platforms is covered by the
[Platform guides](https://project-chip.github.io/connectedhomeip-doc/platforms/index.html).
```

## Matter-specific product considerations
The documentation in this section aims to give an brief overview of some of the
common product and factory considerations and challenges that may differ from
non-Matter products.

Matter device require some material to be provisioned at the factory, after
certification. Some of these materials need to be provisioned on a per-device
basis, some are per-product-line.

![](../img/factory_data.png)

Most platforms provide a comprehensive factory data solution customized to
Matter materials. Please see the documentation for your selected
[Platform](https://project-chip.github.io/connectedhomeip-doc/platforms/index.html).

### Device Attestation Certificates and Certification Authorities

> Device attestation certificates are used to attest devices as being authentic

Reviewer 5: Probably could use a note here about a lot of the procedures being applicable to certification; as a result:
* developers early in the process may use test VID, test PID, and test CAs
* developers should become members early in the process to understand the details of the security procedures within the Alliance

Author: I'm not sure i totally get what you mean here, but nonetheless I took a stab at it. Added a subsection for development DACs at the bottom. PTAL. 
![image](https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/1ac1f976-6623-4677-9e81-d39f9d8b57cd)

devices that are manufactured by the stated vendor and certified as a Matter
device. The full attestation procedure and certificate set is described in the
handbook
[Device Attestation](https://handbook.buildwithmatter.com/howitworks/attestation/)
section. The attestation certificate chain matches the vendor and product IDs
declared on the device and in the certification declaration.

The device attestation chain consists of the Device Attestation Certificate
(DAC), which is signed by the Product Attestation Intermediate (PAI), which is
signed by the Product Attestation Authority (PAA).

The DAC and PAI are provided by the device, and the PAA is distributed in the
DCL and does not appear on the device.

As a part of the attestation chain, each device need to be provisioned with:

-   Device attestation private key

>     -   private, stored in the secure subsystem where possible
>     -   see Spec section 6.3.2 Firmware information
>     -   Covered by the
>         [Security Attestation declaration](https://groups.csa-iot.org/wg/members-all/document/27432)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    -   Private, stored in the secure subsystem where possible.
    -   See Spec section 6.3.2 Firmware information.
    -   Covered by the
        [Security Attestation declaration](https://groups.csa-iot.org/wg/members-all/document/27432)
```

> -   Device Attestation Certification (DAC)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
-   Device Attestation Certificate (DAC)
```

>     -   public
>     -   signed by the PAI

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
    -   Public
    -   Signed by a PAI
```

> -   Product Attestation Intermediate (PAI)
>     -   public
>     -   signed by the PAA (DCL)

Reviewer 6: ```suggestion
-   Product Attestation Intermediate (PAI)
    -   Public
    -   Signed by a PAA (whose certificate is found in the DCL)
```

on-boarding material for discovery and initial commissioning. This includes the
following per-unit items provisioned on the device:

-   discriminator
-   PAKE verifier (encodes the passcode and PAKE salt)
-   PAKE salt

It also includes the following items encoded on the device exterior or
packaging, both of which encode the discriminator and passcode for the
corresponding unit:

-   QR code
-   manual code

Manual codes are required for all devices, QR codes are optional but
recommended. The rules for QR and manual code inclusions are covered in section
5.7.6 and section 13.6 of the specification. These requirements are attested at
certification in the

[Matter Setup Code Guidelines](https://groups.csa-iot.org/wg/members-all/document/27481)

### Multi-product QR codes

For products where multiple devices are in one box, it can be challenging for
users to properly match individual on-boarding materials to the physical
products in the box. In such situations, manufacturers should follow the
guidance in the [Multi Device Setup Codes Best Practices Guide]().

### In-field updates to Matter

If the software being developed is for a product already in the field, the

> Matter firmware will need to distributed as an over-the-air update using the

Reviewer 2: Hello @cecille , this appears to be outdated. Can this be marked as Resolved?

in-field products are subject to the same per-unit requirements as Out-of-Box
Natter products, and thus it is important to consider how to distribute not only
the firmware, but also how to display the on-boarding material or how to do a
background update using the current connected application and how to provision
the per-unit materials discussed earlier in this section in a secure manner
using the security materials available to the current firmware.

## Certification programs

Product developers should be aware of the various certification programs and how
they may impact the product development process across the entire line.

In particular:

-   Products considering software component certification should understand
    which types of products and operating environments qualify for this program.
-   Products with various SKUs and variants should understand the portfolio
    certification program and what constitutes a viable portfolio parent.
-   Bridge devices should understand the bridge certification program and how
    certification of the supported device types works.

Product manufacturers should be aware that the CSA has a sunset policy in effect

> for prior specification revisions. The sunset policy is available in full at
> (TODO: where's the sunset policy?).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
for prior specification revisions. The sunset policy is available in Causeway
via this [link](https://groups.csa-iot.org/wg/members-all/document/39617).
```

is no single "best" way to integrate Matter into a product. This guide aims to
address the common considerations for Matter product development.

- Information on the CSA open source SDK is available at the
[Matter SDK documentation site](https://project-chip.github.io/connectedhomeip-doc/index.html).

- Integration of the SDK on specific platforms is covered by the
[Platform guides](https://project-chip.github.io/connectedhomeip-doc/platforms/index.html).

## Matter-specific product considerations
The documentation in this section aims to give a brief overview of some of the
common product and factory considerations and challenges that may differ from
non-Matter products.

Matter devices require some material to be provisioned at the factory, after
certification. Some of these materials need to be provisioned on a per-device
basis, some are per-product-line.

![](../img/factory_data.png)

Most platforms provide a comprehensive factory data solution customized to
Matter materials. Please see the documentation for your selected
[Platform](https://project-chip.github.io/connectedhomeip-doc/platforms/index.html).

### Device Attestation Certificates and Certification Authorities

> Device attestation certificates are used to attest devices as being authentic

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Device attestation certificates are used to attest devices (or commissionable apps - in the case of Matter Casting) as being authentic
```

devices that are manufactured by the stated vendor and certified as a Matter
device. The full attestation procedure and certificate set is described in the
handbook
[Device Attestation](https://handbook.buildwithmatter.com/howitworks/attestation/)
section. The attestation certificate chain matches the vendor and product IDs
declared on the device and in the certification declaration.

The device attestation chain consists of the Device Attestation Certificate
(DAC), which is signed by the Product Attestation Intermediate (PAI), which is
signed by the Product Attestation Authority (PAA).

> The DAC and PAI are provided by the device, and the PAA is distributed in the

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
The DAC and PAI are provided by the product being commissioned (device, app, etc), and the PAA is distributed in the
```

> DCL and does not appear on the device.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
DCL and does not appear on the product.
```

> As a part of the attestation chain, each device need to be provisioned with:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
As a part of the attestation chain, each attesting product needs to be provisioned with:
```

-   Device attestation private key
    -   Private, stored in the secure subsystem where possible.
    -   See Spec section 6.3.2 Firmware information.
    -   Covered by the
        [Security Attestation declaration](https://groups.csa-iot.org/wg/members-all/document/27432)
-   Device Attestation Certificate (DAC)
    -   Public
    -   Signed by a PAI
-   Product Attestation Intermediate (PAI)
    -   Public
    -   Signed by a PAA (whose certificate is found in the DCL)

> Devices can either opt to purchase DAC provisioning packages from a Matter PKI provider or use their

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Attesting products can either opt to purchase DAC provisioning packages from a Matter PKI provider or use their
```

-   [Certificate Policy Self-Attestation Compliance Form](https://groups.csa-iot.org/wg/matter-tsg/document/27269)

A list of PKI providers can be found on the CSA site:

-   [Product Attestation Authorities](https://csa-iot.org/certification/paa/)

#### Development DACs
During te development phase, developers often opt to use test DACs using the test vendor IDs. The SDK has a number of example DACs that chain up to the SDK test PAAs and these are loaded by default by the example apps. The development controllers load the test PAAs by default, which simplifies development.

Development controllers can be switched to use production PAAs using the `--paa-trust-store-path` parameter.

Test DACs are not permitted during certification testing, and devices must arrive with two instances with individually provisioned DACs in order to show that the device can meet the requirements around individual provisioning. Devices at certification are not required to use production DACs.

Device manufacturers may wish to consider joining the CSA early in the process to understand the details of the security procedures within the Alliance.

### Certification Declaration (CD)

> The Certification Declaration (CD) is provided by the CSA after a device is

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
The Certification Declaration (CD) is provided by the CSA after n attesting product is
```

certified. It is tied to the vendor and product ID (or IDs) of the certified

> device, and is signed by CSA. The public key corresponding to the signing key is

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
product, and is signed by CSA. The public key corresponding to the signing key is
```

well known and distributed by the CSA through the DCL.

- [CD Signing Certs Root CA](https://on.dcl.csa-iot.org/dcl/pki/all-certificates?subjectKeyId=97:E4:69:D0:C5:04:14:C2:6F:C7:01:F7:7E:94:77:39:09:8D:F6:A5)

- [CD Signing Cert SKIDs](https://on.dcl.csa-iot.org/dcl/pki/child-certificates/MFIxDDAKBgNVBAoMA0NTQTEsMCoGA1UEAwwjTWF0dGVyIENlcnRpZmljYXRpb24gYW5kIFRlc3RpbmcgQ0ExFDASBgorBgEEAYKifAIBDARDNUEw/97:E4:69:D0:C5:04:14:C2:6F:C7:01:F7:7E:94:77:39:09:8D:F6:A5)

> The CD is NOT a standard x.509 certificate, but is

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
The CD is NOT a standard X.509 certificate, but is
```

The certification declaration for the product line is provided after
certification testing, and therefore cannot be hard coded in the firmware. New
certification declarations are issued for each certified firmware update.
Therefore, product development should include a strategy for initial
provisioning and updates of the certification declaration.

See
[Preparing a Device for Certification](#preparing-a-device-for-certification)
for discussion of CDs used for certification testing.

### Matter on-boarding materials (QR codes and manual codes)

In addition to DACs, each individual unit needs to be provisioned with its own
on-boarding material for discovery and initial commissioning. This includes the
following per-unit items provisioned on the device:

-   discriminator
-   PAKE verifier (encodes the passcode and PAKE salt)
-   PAKE salt

It also includes the following items encoded on the device exterior or
packaging, both of which encode the discriminator and passcode for the
corresponding unit:

-   QR code
-   manual code

Manual codes are required for all devices, QR codes are optional but
recommended. The rules for QR and manual code inclusions are covered in section

> 5.7.6 and section 13.6 of the specification.
> 
> [Matter Setup Code Guidelines](https://groups.csa-iot.org/wg/members-all/document/27481)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
5.7.6 and section 13.6 of the specification. Additional examples and suggestions on QR code style for Matter devices are captured in [Matter Setup Code Guidelines](https://groups.csa-iot.org/wg/members-all/document/27481)
```

> 
> [Matter Setup Code Guidelines](https://groups.csa-iot.org/wg/members-all/document/27481)

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
```

All the content in the doc above is also contained in the brand guidelines below

> Information about on-package badging and QR and manual codes documented in the

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
Information about on-package badging and QR and manual codes are documented in the
```

[Brand Guidelines](https://csa-iot.org/wp-content/uploads/2022/11/Matter_Guideline_v15b_26102022_Public-Use.pdf).

### Multi-product QR codes

For products where multiple devices are in one box, it can be challenging for
users to properly match individual on-boarding materials to the physical
products in the box. In such situations, manufacturers should follow the

> guidance in the [Multi Device Setup Codes Best Practices Guide]().

Reviewer 5: Missing link.

Author: section removed.
